LUMINANCE RESPONSE MEASUREMENTS
================================

The lumResponse application can be used to measure the gray
palette for a display and record the luminance values in a
uLR text file (Palette modes). These uLR palettes are then
used to generate a DICOM calibration LUTs as described in
the lutGenerate documentations. LumResponse can also be used 
to measure the luminance response of a calibrated monitor and
record the values in a cLR text file (QC modes). The cLR 
values can then be evaluated in relation to the DICOM GSDF.


LumResponse
-----------

This program puts a large secondary window on the screen
with an optional grey background and a central square target 
region. The target gray level is varied to assess display 
luminance response. The grey intensity of the target region is
cycled through increasing intensity values to measure luminance
versus grey value. The measurements are made by luminance
meter (photometers or colorimeters), that are typically
connected using a USB port. Currently, one meter type is
supported (i1Display Pro and its variants).


Mode Options
............

The 'Mode' button at the top left of the utility selects
the type of measurement to be made. The current mode is
displayed in the window title. The various modes are as
follows:

For uLR measurement:

  1786 Palette
    This mode is used for measuring the uncalibrated
    luminance response of a color display. Make sure the
    display is using a linear LUT (i.e - no calibration)
    before proceeding.

  766 Palette
    This mode is used for measuring the uncalibrated
    luminance response of a monochrome display. Make sure
    the display is using a linear LUT (i.e - no
    calibration) before proceeding.

For cLR measurement:

  QC (256x1)
    This mode is used for measuring the luminance response
    of a display after in order to verify that a DICOM 
    calibration is in place. One measurement is made for 
    each of the 256 driving levels.
    
  QC (52x1)
    This mode is used for measuring the luminance response
    of a display after in order to verify that a DICOM 
    calibration is in place. One measurement is made 
    every five driving levels.
    
  QC (18x1)
    This mode is used for measuring the luminance response
    of a display after in order to verify that a DICOM 
    calibration is in place. One measurement is made every 
    15 driving levels. This is     the mode specified in AAPM 
    Report OR-3 (TG18) for routine QC.

  QC (16x2)
    This mode is used for measuring the luminance response
    of a display after in order to verify that a DICOM 
    calibration is in place. Two measurements are made at 
    each of 16 different primary driving levels 
    (8,24,40,...248). The measurements are made at driving 
    levels just above and just below the primary driving 
    level from which the contrast is computed. For some 
    luminance meters, color gray tracking is also reported.
    
  QC (External 18)
    This mode is used for measuring the luminance response
    of an external display to verify DICOM calibration is 
    in place. Instead of relying on the secondary window to
    sample the gray scale response, the user is responsible
    for placing the photometer on the external display and 
    controlling the appropriate gray level for each
    measurement using the appropriate test patterns on the 
    external display. One measurement is made every 
    15 driving levels. Appropriate patterns include the 
    TG18-LN or TG270-ULN series of patterns, TG18-pQC,
    TG270-pQC, and TG270-sQC patterns, among others.

  QC (External 11)
    This mode is used for measuring the luminance response
    of an external display to verify DICOM calibration is 
    in place. Instead of relying on the secondary window to
    sample the gray scale response, the user is responsible
    for placing the photometer on the external display and 
    controlling the appropriate gray level for each
    measurement using the appropriate test patterns on the 
    external display. One measurement is made every 
    25.5 driving levels (rounded to the nearest integer).
    This mode is intended for use with the SMPTE pattern
    available on many modality acquisition workstation 
    displays.

Other modes:

  DEMO MODE
    This mode is for demonstration purposes. It will
    quickly cycle from black to white but no measurements
    will be taken. The meter does not need to be connected
    for the demo to run.

  OTHER
    This option allows the user to use a customized
    perturbation series for the luminance measurements.
    For advanced users only.


Geometry and Meter Options
..........................

The "GEOM" and "METER" buttons provide access to advanced
options for the test image window and the photometer,
respectively. The "GEOM" options can be used to customize
the geometry and position of the test image. The initial
values for the geometry options are set in the LRconfig.txt
file which is in the lumResponse directory of distribution
package.

The "METER" options include selection of the meter model
and settings effecting the way display luminance is
measured. Further information is given by the "?" buttons
next to each setting.

One meter is currently supported:

  X-Rite i1Display Pro
    This modestly priced photometer from X-Rite has improved 
    precision and faster response than previously supported
    photometers. It is the currently recommended device if 
    you need to buy a photometer and is available
    from several distributors for about $200-250 USD. It is
    also sold with different labels such as the NEC
    SpectraSensor Pro, DisplayPro Plus, ColorMunki Display/
    i1Display Studio, Calibrite ColorChecker Display/Pro/Plus. 
    The device communicates using USB ports as a human 
    interface device (HID) using the Windows HID driver. 
    As such, it will generally attach and be ready to use 
    without the need to load a driver.


Making Measurements
...................

Once a mode has been selected and the meter specified
(defaults to i1Display Pro), a Display ID should be created
to identify the measurement results once they are saved.
The name that is selected will be used to name the output
file.

The "Display #" box is used to select the display that you
wish to identify. This number is the same as that used by
Windows and listed in the Display Properties window.
Pressing the "GET EDID ID" button will then retrieve the
model and serial number (S/N) information from the EDID for
that display and use it to build the Display ID. The result
is displayed in the text box. A custom ID can be entered
into the text box if so desired. It is suggested that the
model and serial number of the display be included.

The remaining portion of the lumResponse window provides
the steps for the luminance response measurement and a
button to begin each step. They are described here:

  Step 1: Position Test Image
    This opens up a test image window that needs to be
    centered on the screen of the display to be measured.
    The window should be about the same size as the screen.
    The window size can be changed manually using the GEOM
    settings.

  Step 2: Initialize Meter
    This button begins communication with the luminance
    meter. It activates the meter display at the bottom of
    the window, providing information regarding the
    measurement. The details of this monitor are explained
    further below.

    At this point, the luminance meter should be setup in
    front of the display, and centered on the square target
    in the middle of the test window. Depending on the
    meter used, it should be positioned close to or in
    contact with the display surface such that the
    luminance is not perturbed.

  Step 3: Record Data
    This starts the measurement process. You will be asked
    to be sure that the monitor is in the correct
    calibration (linear for uLRs and DICOM for cLRs) and
    that the power saver settings will not cause the screen
    to darken. Pressing this button once a measurement has
    begun will pause the measurement and provide an option
    to abort or continue.

  Step 4: Save Data
    Press this button to save the luminance data once a
    measurement is complete. You will be asked where to
    save the output file. The default directory is the
    _NEW folder. An option to plot the luminance vs p-values
    is provided after the data is saved.

Columns for the luminance response saved file:

  MEASUREMENT No.
    Sequential measurement number.

  AVG LUMINANCE
    The average luminance value measured for each gray
    step.

  RGB VALUE
    Hexidecimal RGB value for the measurement.

  GRAY-STEP
    The current stage of the luminance measurement. This
    number represents the standard graylevel (1-256).

  SUB-STEP
    This second number represents the perturbation steps
    in the graylevel sequence. There are 7 sub-steps in
    1786 mode and 3 in 766 mode. The 256, 52, 18, 11,
    and Demo modes do not use sub-steps.

  dL/L
    Relative difference between the current and the prior
    measurement.

  u'
    Chromaticity u' value (for supported meters, Yuv,
    CIE 1976)

  v'
    Chromaticity v' value (for supported meters, Yuv,
    CIE 1976)

Files are saved with file names of:
  uLR_MANF_MODEL_SN.txt  for uncalibrated palette files
  cLR_MANF_MODEL_SN.txt  for calibrated QC files.

The luminance response recorded with lumResponse represents
surface luminance in the absence of the luminance caused by
reflected room lights, Lamb. When doing QC evaluations or
computing DICOM calibration LUTs, a value of Lamb is
specified and added to each value.


QC Evaluations
--------------

The American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM)
described a quantitative test of a DICOM calibrated monitor
in 2005 (AAPM On Line report #3). This was included in an
IEC standard as a basic test (IEC).


QC (256, 52, 18, 11, 16x2) Evaluation
......................................

The lumResponse application includes routines to evaluate
the QC 256, 52, 18, 11, 16x2 cLR. The AAPM and IEC method 
makes 18 luminance measurements at equally spaced gray levels
(Digital Driving Levels, DDL). For a graphics system with
256 gray levels, these are spaced every 15 gray levels
(17 x 15 + 1 = 256). 17 relative luminance changes are
then evaluated and this contrast is compared to the DICOM
GSDF. The ACR-AAPM-SIIM Technical Standard for Electronic
Imaging recommends:

  "The contrast response of monitors used for diagnostic
  interpretation should be within 10% of the GSDF over
  the full LR. For other uses, the contrast response
  should be within 20% of the GSDF over the full LR."

The measurement protocol used by lumResponse for the QC
16x2 mode is essentially the same as the AAPM and IEC
method except that 16 pairs of measures are made over the
full range of a 256 level grayscale. The base value for
each of the 16 measurement pairs increments in steps of
16: 0, 16, 32, ..., 240. The two measures are then made
by adding 5 or 11 to the base value with the red, green,
and blue values of each being equal.

The contrast evaluated from these measures represents the
contrast estimate, dL/L, for levels of 8, 24, 30, 46, ...,
248 with the contrast computed for gray level changes of 6.
This provides an improved estimate of contrast compared to
measures using gray level changes of 15 for the AAPM and
IEC method. Additionally, the protocol makes three
measurements of Lmin at a gray level of 0 and one
measurement of Lmax at a gray level of 255.

Note: The protocol is set in the 16phase.txt file located
in the lumResponse application directory. 

After saving the QC cLR in a directory with the
monitor model name, the user has the option to evaluate
the results. An evaluation report, QC-lr.txt, is placed in
the same folder along with four graphic plots in png
format. The gnuplot command file is also left in the
folder, QC-plot.gpl. The plotted results include:

  QC-Plot-LUM.png
    Luminance vs Gray Level using a semi log plot.

  QC-Plot-dLL.png
    Contrast, dL/L, vs Gray Level with 10% and 20% error
    conditions. The maximum relative error along with
    L'max and L'min are labeled.

  QC-Plot-JND.png
    JNDs per Gray Level vs Gray Level (see DICOM 3.14).

  QC-Plot-uv.png
    Color gray tracking with u'v' relative to D65.

The evaluation uses a default value of Lamb from the
'METER' options. The results can be re-evaluated with a
different Lamb by using the QC check application that
selects the cLR file to re-evaluate and provides an entry
for the new Lamb value.