README-HFHS_pacsDisplay.txt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. Calibration LUTs, lutGenerate
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Calibration of a monitor using pacsDisplay involves loading a look-up
table (LUT) to the graphic driver. The LUT is a list of 256 RGB values
used to replace the standard grayscale values (R=G=B) in order to match
with the DICOM grayscale display function (GSDF).
Creating the LUT requires measuring the full range of gray values
that the display is capable of, the grayscale palette, and then
using those values that are closest to the desired DICOM GSDF
in a calibration look-up table (LUT).
LutGenerate takes a uLR file (output by LumResponse) and builds a LUT file
based on the parameters you specify.

The basic usage steps are;

  1. Select a uLR File

    Start by pressing the "SELECT FILE" button and choosing the appropriate uLR
    file for the display to be calibrated.  LutGenerate will read the uLR file
    and automatically update the fields throughout the window as appropriate.
    This includes the 'Desired Maximum Luminance' field, which will be set to the
    maximum luminance value found in the uLR file.  Both the display name and
    desired maximum luminance may be changed manually after loading a uLR.

  2. Determine Calibration Parameters

    Three parameters must be specified before generating the calibration LUT,

      Lamb  - The ambient luminance expected for the display.
              This is typically measure using a photometer
              when the monitor is turned off and the room lighting
              is set to establish the desired illumination.
              Room lights should not cause direct specular reflections
              on the monitor surface.
      L'max - The desired actual maximum luminance, which is the maximum from
              the monitor plus the ambient luminance(Lmax + Lamb) can be changed.
              The initual value is set at the maximum from the selected uLR file
              plus the entered Lamb. If change it must be lower that shown initially.
      r'    - The luminance ratio equal to L'max/L'min.
              ACR-AAPM-SIIM Technical Guidelines recommend a value of 350.

    Typically these are left the value of L'max taken from the uLR,
    and the default r' of 350. Lamb may need to be adjusted (along with the room
    lighting) in order to maintain Ar within an acceptable range.

  3. Verify Calibration Parameters

    Hitting the 'ENTER' key after changing one of the calibration parameters will
    update the other values presented below:

      Ar, Lamb/Lmin (Ambient Ratio) - The AAPM TG-18 report calls for this
        value to be no move that 2/3 and recommends a value of less than 1/4.
        The text changes to yellow if the value is above 1/4 but less than 2/3
        and red if it is above 2/3

      Target Lmax    - This value is equal to the maximum luminance that will result
                       from loading the generated LUT in the graphic driver
                       in the absence of ambient luminance (i.e. Lmax not L'max).
                       The text will turn red if it goes above the possible
                       maximum luminance indicated by the uLR.

      Target Lmin    - This value is equal to the minimum luminance that will result
                       from loading the generated LUT in the graphic driver
                       in the absence of ambient luminance (i.e. Lmin not L'min).
                       The text will turn red if it goes below the possible
                       maximum luminance indicated by the uLR.

      Possible Lmin - The minimum luminence found in the selected uLR file.

      Possible Lmax - The maximum luminence found in the selected uLR file.
     
    Check to be certain that these values are correct before continuing.
 
  4. Generate the LUT

    Click on the "GENERATE" button to build the calibration LUT.  You will be
    asked where to save the LUT file.  The are commonly stored within the
    LUT-LIbrary/_NEW directory in a folder specific to the workstation monitor.
