README-HFHS_pacsDisplay.txt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
      5.3 LLconfig Tool
------------------------------------------------------------------------

LLconfig is a tool to help build a LoadLUT configuration file for a
particular display setup.  The format for the configuration file is described
in the README-HFHS_pacsDisplay.txt document in the pacsDisplay directory.

REQUIREMENTS:
- The EDID functions require that getEDID.exe be in the same directory as
the LLconfig executable.

USAGE:
1. Options - The top bar lists the possible LoadLUT options that can be set.
Click on the boxes next to the option names to select (or de-select) them.

2. Number of Displays - Selecting a number means that entries for all of the
displays up to and including that number will be included.  For example, if
"3" is selected, entries for displays 1, 2, and 3 will be generated in the
final configuration file.  These display numbers correspond to the numbers in
the "Display Properties" window.

3. Display Entries - Text entry bars are provided to list the configuration
information for each individual display.

  Monitor Descriptor - This is the name of the display as given by the
    EDID information.  If left blank, a wild card character ("*") will be
    inserted into the configuration file instead.

  Serial Number - This is either the 4-digit or extended serial number found
    in the EDID.  If left blank, a wild card character ("*") will be
    inserted into the configuration file instead.

  Default LUT file - This is the LUT file that will be applied to the display
    if LUTsearch and LDTsearch are not selected or if the file being searched
    for is not found.  If left blank, "linearLUT.txt" will be inserted as the
    LUT file for that display.

  GET EDID - This button runs getEDID and looks for the monitor descriptor
    and serial number entries for that display.  If found, these items will
    be copied to the appropriate text entry bars.  If both a 4-digit and
    extended serial number are found, then the user will be asked to select
    one.

  SELECT LUT - This button opens a file-select window so that the user can
    browse for the LUT file they want for that display.

4. BUILD CONFIG FILE - This button will take the current form information and
build a configLL.txt file formatted for LoadLUT.  The user will be asked where
to save the file.

5. RESET FORM - This button resets the form to its initial state.

6. QUIT - This button exits the program.  Form information will not be saved.
