
README-HFHS_pacsDisplay.txt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          3.1 LumResponse
------------------------------------------------------------------------

LumResponse is used to measure the gray pallette for a display and record
the luminance values in a uLR text file.

This program will put up a large window on the screen with a grey background
and a central target region. This pattern is intended for assessing display
luminance response.  The grey intensity of the target region is cycled
through increasing intensity values to measure luminance versus grey value.
Currently the measurements are made by an IL1700 luminance meter connected
using a serial line interface.

The 'Mode' button at the top of the utility selects the type of measurement
to be made.  The current mode is displayed in the window title.  The various
modes are as follows:

  1786 Palette - This mode is used for measuring the uncalibrated luminance
    response of a color display.  Make sure the display is using a linear
    LUT (i.e - no calibration) before proceeding.

  766 Palette - This mode is used for measuring the uncalibrated luminance
    response of a monochrome display.  Make sure the display is using a
    linear LUT (i.e - no calibration) before proceeding.

  QC (256x1) - This mode is used for measuring the luminance response of a
    display after a LUT has been installed in order to verify that a DICOM
    calibration is in place. One measurement is made for 256 driving levels.

  QC (16x2) - This mode is used for measuring the luminance response of a
    display after a LUT has been installed in order to verify that a DICOM
    calibration is in place. Two measurements are made at each of 16 different
    primary driving levels (8,24,40,...248). The measurements are made a driving 
    levels just above and just below the primary driving level from which
    the contrast is computed. For some luminance meters, color gray
    tracking is also reported.

  DEMO MODE - This mode is for demonstration purposes.  It will quickly cycle
    from black to white but no measurements will be taken.  The IL1700 does
    not need to be connected for the demo to run.

  OTHER - This option allows the user to use a customized perturbation series
    for the luminance measurements.  For advanced users only.

The "GEOM" and "METER" buttons provide access to advanced options for the
test image window and the photometer, respectively.  The "GEOM"
options can be used to customize the geometry and position of the test image.
The "METER" options include selection of the meter model and 
settings effecting the way display luminance is measured.
Further information is given byt "?" buttons next to each setting.

Once a mode has been selected, a Display ID should be created to identify
the measurement results once they are saved.  The name that is selected will
be used to name the output file.

The "Display #" box is used to select the display that you wish to identify.
This number is the same as that used by Windows and listed in the Display
Properties window.  Pressing the "GET EDID ID" button will then retrieve the
model and serial number (S/N) information from the EDID for that display and
use it to build the Display ID.  The result is displayed in the text box.  A
custom ID can be entered into the text box if so desired.  It is suggested
that the model and serial number of the display be included.

The remaining portion of the lumResponse window provides the steps for the
luminance response measurement and a button to begin each step.  They are
described here:

  Step 1: Position Test Image
    This opens up a test image window that needs to be centered on the screen
    of the display to be measured.  The window should be about the same size as
    the screen.  You may want to set the display to be measured as the primary
    display in order to get the right test window size.  Otherwise, you can
    change the display size manually using the GEOM settings.

  Step 2: Initialize Meter
    This button begins communication with the luminance meter.  It
    activates the meter display at the bottom of the window, providing
    information regarding the measurement.  The details of this monitor are
    explained further below.

    At this point, the luminance meter should be setup in front of the display,
    centered on the square target in the middle of the test window.  The end of
    the photometer should be positioned close to the screen, but not touching it
    in order to prevent distortions.  A dark cloth should be placed over the
    display and photometer to block ambient light.  It is suggested that the
    cloth not cover any vents in the back of the display as this can cause it to
    heat up quickly and may affect the measurement.

  Step 3: Record Data
    This starts the measurement process.  The luminance meter should be properly
    setup before hitting this button.  Pressing this button once a measurement
    has begun will pause the measurement and provide an option to abort or
    continue.

  Step 4: Save Data
    Press this button to save the luminance data once a measurement is complete.
    You will be asked where to save the output file.  An option to plot the
    luminance vs p-values is provided after the data is saved.


  Columns for the luminance response saved file:

    MEASURE - Sequential measurment number.

    AVG LUMINANCE - The average luminance value measured for each gray step.

    RGB VALUE - Octal RGB value for the measurement.

    GRAY-STEP - The current stage of the luminance measurement.  This number
    represents the standard graylevel (1-256).  Negative values represent the
    colored frames that are measured at the beginning before the gray levels.

    SUB-STEP - This second number represents the perturbation steps in the
    graylevel sequence.  There are 7 steps in 1786 mode and 3 in 766 mode.  The
    256 and Demo modes do not use sub-steps.


    Additional indicators are displayed in small print at the bottom of the
    monitor, without labels.  They are as follows, from left to right:

    dL - Difference between the current and the prior measurement.
