
        -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                    uniLum
        -----------------------------------------------------------------

	The uniLum program automates the collection of luminance 
	uniformity data of a display system. The software displays 
	a window for the user to resize to the desired measurement 
	area. The software interfaces with an X-Rite i1Display Pro 
	photometer (or one of it's many rebranded names) using the 
	ArgyllCMS spotread utility. The spotread utility returns the 
	luminance reading for each gray level within each location 
	on the display. At completion of the measurements, the software 
	can display the results in a text window for copying to another 
	location. The user also has the ability to save the results to 
	a .txt file. Both the text window and .txt file also present the 
	luminance uniformity deviation from the median (LUDM) and the 
	mean luminance deviation (MLD), as defined in AAPM reports 270 
	and TG-18, at each gray level and the maximum values across all 
	gray levels. 

        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
                                     USAGE
- Image:

	Open a new window for uniformity measurements. The window 
	can be resized to allow for an arbitrary display matrix. 
	The upper left part of the pattern shows the first region 
	to be measured, with a target circle in the center for the 
	photometer placement.
	
- Read:

	Begin measurements. This will initiate the delay countdown,
	after which the first series of measurements take place 
	within the first region. The number of measurements is 
	controlled by the user selection of 1-, 3-, or 18- levels.
	The levels is passed to the initial call, so changing
	mid-read has no effect on the current sequencing. 
	
- Save

	Save measurements. After completing the measurements, 
	the user has the option to save the results to a .txt file.
	The file contains the date/time, configuration settings,
	measured values for each point, and LUDM/MLD calculations
	at each gray level (as well as an overall maximum).
	
- Play/Pause

	The user can "pause" the measurement process during
	the delay countdown. The process will wait until the 
	"play" button is selected to resume measurments. 

        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
                                     OPTIONS
- Levels:

	The user selects the desired number of gray levels to 
	measurement at each uniformity position. The gray levels 
	are defined in the uniConfig.txt file. The pre-loaded 
	values roughly correspond to the 80% level for 1-level, 
	the 10%, 50%, and 80% levels for 3-level, and every 15 
	gray levels for the 18-level. The recommendation from 
	AAPM report 270 is to measure 3 levels for routine testing.

- Lamb:

	The Lamb text entry is automatically added to each measured 
	luminance level to record the combined luminance for each 
	measurement. Changing	after the measurement is completed 
	has no effect on the saved data.
	
- Delay:

	The delay in the lower right part of the measurment window 
	shows a live counter of the time until the next measurement 
	sequence begins (in seconds). The user can adjust the time 
	by clicking on the up/down arrows with the left mouse button 
	before the measurements begin.
	
- Display ID:

	The display ID is appended to the end of the file name when
	saving


        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
                                     FEATURES

- Calibration

	The uniConfig.txt file in the distribution directory
	has a variable that can be used to adjust the meter readings
	iLcalVal is a multiplicative calibration factor.
	The software is distributed with a calibration factor of 1.0

- Averaging

	The application averages sequential meter values before
	updating the display. The number of values to average is set
	by the avgN variable in the uniConfig.txt file located
	in the distribution directory. The software is distributed with
	avgN set to 2. The small numbers at the bottom of the meter
	show the value of avgN.



