== Calibration LUTs, lutGenerate ==

Calibration of a display using pacsDisplay involves loading a
look-up table (LUT) to the graphic driver. The LUT is a list of
256 RGB values used to replace the standard grayscale values
(R=G=B) in order to match with the DICOM grayscale display
function (GSDF). Creating the LUT requires measuring the full
range of gray values that the display is capable of, the
grayscale palette, and then using those values that are closest
to the desired DICOM GSDF in a calibration look-up table (LUT).
LutGenerate takes a uLR file (output by LumResponse) and builds a
LUT file based on the parameters you specify.

The basic usage steps are:

[Step 1: Select a uLR File] Start by pressing the "SELECT FILE"
button and choosing the appropriate uLR file for the display to
be calibrated. LutGenerate will read the uLR file and
automatically update the fields throughout the window as
appropriate. This includes the 'Desired Maximum Luminance' field,
which will be set to the maximum luminance value found in the uLR
file. Both the display name and desired maximum luminance may be
changed manually after loading a uLR.

[Step 2. Determine Calibration Parameters] Three parameters must
be specified before generating the calibration LUT:

Lamb    The ambient luminance expected for the display. This is
typically measure using a photometer when the display is turned
off and the room lighting is set to establish the desired
illumination. Room lights should not cause direct specular
reflections on the display surface.

L'max    The desired combined maximum luminance, which is the
maximum from the display plus the ambient luminance (Lmax + 
Lamb). The initial value is set at the maximum from the 
selected uLR file plus the entered Lamb. If changed, it must be
lower that shown initially.

r'    The luminance ratio equal to L'max/L'min. ACR-AAPM-SIIM
Technical Standard for Electronic Practice of Medical Imaging
and AAPM Report 270 recommend a value of 350 for displays with
luminance levels typical of those seen on most systems. For 
displays with much higher luminance levels (~1000 cd/m2), 
lower luminance ratios may be used to achieve the same total
number of JNDs (~600 for a display with Lmin ~1 and
Lmax of ~350). 

Typically these are left the value of L'max taken from the uLR,
and the default r' of 350. Lamb may need to be adjusted (along
with the room lighting) in order to maintain Ar within an
acceptable range.

[Step 3. Verify Calibration Parameters] Hitting the 'ENTER' key
after changing one of the calibration parameters will update the
other values presented below:

Ar, Lamb/Lmin (Ambient Ratio)    The AAPM Reports OR03
(TG18) and 270 report calls for this value to be no move
that 2/3 and recommends a value of less than 1/4. The text
changes to yellow if the value is above 1/4 but less than
2/3 and red if it is above 2/3

Total DICOM GSDF JNDs    For displays with operating parameters
near the default values (L'max 350 cd/m2 and L'min 1.0 cd/m2),
the total number of JNDs will be ~600 (581.6 if the numbers are
exact). The luminance ratio (r') serves as a conventient means
of matching display appearance across displays without needing
to calculate the total JNDs. However, total JNDs is potentially
a better indicator of contrast appearance. Therefore, for 
display systems with operating parameters significantly 
different from the default parameters of this software, matching
total JNDs may provide superior constrast resolution matching.

Target Lmax    This value is equal to the maximum luminance that
will result from loading the generated LUT in the graphic driver
in the absence of ambient luminance (i.e., Lmax not L'max). The
text will turn red if it goes above the possible maximum
luminance indicated by the uLR.

Target Lmin    This value is equal to the minimum luminance that
will result from loading the generated LUT in the graphic driver
in the absence of ambient luminance (i.e., Lmin not L'min). The
text will turn red if it goes below the possible maximum
luminance indicated by the uLR.

Possible Lmin    The minimum luminance found in the selected uLR
file.

Possible Lmax    The maximum luminance found in the selected uLR
file.

Check to be certain that these values are correct before
continuing.

[Step 4. Generate the LUT] Click on the "GENERATE" button to
build the calibration LUT. You will be asked where to save the
LUT file. For full installations, they are commonly stored 
within the LUT-LIbrary/_NEW directory in a folder specific to 
the workstation display.